OKTA-512511 Lifecycle management for OIN overview (#3483)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oin-lifecycle-mgmt-overview/index.md

<div class="half">

![Lifecycle management](/img/oin/scim_lifecycle.png "User lifecycle diagram: 1 - new employee 2 - provision applications 3 - enforce security 4 - update user information 5 - off-board")

</div>

Okta provides two methods to integrate lifecycle management to your application. You can use the [System for Cross-domain Identity Management](/docs/reference/scim/) (SCIM) protocol to manage user accounts from Okta, or you can use the [Workflows Connector Builder](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=wf&id=ext-connector-builder) to create automated identity processes in [Okta Workflows](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=wf).

After completing your Okta lifecycle management integration, publish it in the [Okta Integration Network (OIN)](https://www.okta.com/integrations/) for your customers to benefit secure provisioning automation and meet compliance requirements. The OIN is a collection of pre-built app integrations covering numerous use cases. Join the community that customers trust to exchange secure authentication between users, devices, and applications.

## Why build a lifecycle management integration with Okta?

| &nbsp; | &nbsp; |
| ------ | ------ |

> | **Automate onboarding/offboarding and win larger customers** | Once an organization reaches a certain size, manually provisioning accounts and getting users set up for success can be time consuming and a huge bottleneck for your product’s adoption. Okta lifecycle management integration automates mundane tasks for your customers which reduces the total cost of ownership and removes barriers to end-user activation. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Automate onboarding/offboarding and win larger customers** | After an organization reaches a certain size, manually provisioning accounts and getting users set up for success are time consuming and a huge bottleneck for your product’s adoption. Okta lifecycle management integration automates mundane tasks for your customers, which reduces the total cost of ownership and removes barriers to end-user activation. |
```

> | **Secure access to your application** | Secure access to your application: integrating with Okta ensures that end-users can access your application as soon as they join an organization. Access is automatically removed as they leave the organization to prevent embarrassing data loss and dangling access. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Secure access to your application** | Secure access to your application. Integrating with Okta ensures that end users can access your application as soon as they join an organization. Access is automatically removed as they leave the organization to prevent embarrassing data loss and dangling access. |
```

> | **Meet compliance requirements** | Help your customers generate logs of access changes in order to comply with security policies and audits. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Meet compliance requirements** | Help your customers generate logs of access changes to comply with security policies and audits. |
```

> | **Increase adoption of your product and sell more licenses** | Okta lifecycle management integration helps your customers utilize SaaS licenses and ultimately purchase more as the organization grows or usage expands. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Increase adoption of your product and sell more licenses** | Okta lifecycle management integration helps your customers use SaaS licenses and ultimately purchase more as the organization grows or use expands. |
```

| **Technology** | <ul><li>JSON-based REST API server implementation</li> <li>Okta supports outbound SCIM requests to your SCIM API service</li> <li>See [SCIM Protocol](/docs/reference/scim/)</li></ul> | <ul><li>Low code development environment</li> <li>See [Okta Workflows](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=wf)</li></ul>|
| **Benefits** | <ul><li>Covers the most common lifecycle management needs related to onboarding/offboarding</li> <li>SCIM standard is throughout the industry</li> </ul> | <ul><li>Customers can create highly custom automation with your product without writing code</li> <li>Your product is tightly integrated with Okta</li> </ul>|
| **Get started** | [Build a SCIM Provisioning Integration](/docs/guides/scim-provisioning-integration-overview/) | [Workflows Connector Builder](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=wf&id=ext-connector-builder) |

## Use case examples

> ### Example of partner integration journey with Okta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example of a partner integration journey with Okta
```

Tom is an internal developer at OktReward, an HR employee rewards app. OktReward is already in the OIN with an SSO integration. OktReward wants to add a lifecycle management integration with Okta.

Tom performs the following tasks:

> * Builds the OktReward-Okta lifecycle management integration by using the Workflows Connector Builder so that their customers don’t need to worry about manual employee profile processes, such as onboarding or offboarding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Builds the OktReward-Okta lifecycle management integration by using the Workflows Connector Builder so that their customers don’t need to worry about manual employee profile processes, such as onboarding or offboarding
```

> * Documents the required configuration steps for the customer admin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Documents the required configuration steps for the customer admin
```

> * Submits the integration and corresponding documentation for Okta to verify and review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Submits the integration and corresponding documentation for Okta to verify and review
```

After approval, the OktReward app is published as a lifecycle management integration (in addition to an SSO integration) in the OIN.

> ### Example of customer admin integration journey with Okta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example of a customer admin integration journey with Okta
```

Acme is a company that is using Okta to manage identity for their workforce. Acme is considering adding OktReward into their HR suite. Since OktReward is in the OIN with SSO and lifecycle management use cases, Acme knows that they can integrate OktReward securely into their existing Okta-managed SSO and automated user lifecycle flow with minimal effort. In addition, Acme can access OktRewards audits for their compliance needs.

Alicia is an admin at Acme and performs the following tasks to integrate OktReward:

> * Adds the OktReward app integration in the OIN catalog from the Okta Admin Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds the OktReward app integration in the OIN catalog from the Okta Admin Console
```

> * Follows the instructions provided by OktReward to configure the SSO and Okta Workflows integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Follows the instructions provided by OktReward to configure the SSO and Okta Workflows integration
```

> * Configures the Okta authentication policy and the groups of Acme employees with various access levels to the OktReward app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configures the authentication policy and the groups of Acme employees with various access levels to the OktReward app
```

> * Imports user profiles from Okta to the OktReward app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Imports user profiles from Okta to the OktReward app.\
```

> * Tests signing in to the OktReward app with existing Okta credentials to verify the authentication flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tests signing in to the OktReward app with existing Okta credentials to verify the authentication flow
```

> * Tests user onboarding, role changes, offboarding with HR to ensure that the user provisioning flow is working accurately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tests user onboarding, role changes, offboarding with HR to ensure that the user provisioning flow is working accurately
```

### Example of a workforce lifecycle journey with Okta

Key terms for lifecycle management in this workforce journey:

* **Joiner**: Starting employment at an organization
* **Mover**: Changing roles or teams within an organization
* **Leaver**: Ending employment at an organization

#### Joiner

1. Lucy accepts an offer to join the Customer Support team at Acme Corp. The Acme HR team sets her start date in the employee directory and adds her to the “Customer Support” Okta group.
1. On her start date, Okta automatically creates accounts for Lucy in all the tools used by every employee at Acme (for example: chat, corporate directory, intranet, and so on).
1. Since Lucy is in the Customer Support Okta group, an account is also provisioned for Lucy in the tools used exclusively by the Customer Support team (for example, the case management tool).

> 1. Acme uses Okta Workflows to provide custom onboarding actions, extending the usual account provisioning flows. Once Lucy’s account is activated, an onboarding flow is triggered based on Lucy's group. Since she is part of the Customer Support group, Lucy is added to a special folder in Acme’s cloud file storage service that the Customer Support team uses to share template files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Acme uses Okta Workflows to provide custom onboarding actions, extending the usual account provisioning flows. After Lucy’s account is activated, an onboarding flow is triggered based on Lucy's group. Since she is part of the Customer Support group, Lucy is added to a special folder in Acme’s cloud file storage service that the Customer Support team uses to share template files.
```

#### Mover

> 1. After 2 years of great work on the Customer Support team, Lucy is promoted and becomes a team manager! The HR team updates Lucy’s role in the employee directory to reflect her new level and manager title. Lucy’s profile in Okta is updated, and Lucy is added to a new group called “People Managers” in Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. After two years of great work on the Customer Support team, Lucy is promoted and becomes a team manager! The HR team updates Lucy’s role in the employee directory to reflect her new level and manager title. Lucy’s profile in Okta is updated, and Lucy is added to a new group called “People Managers” in Okta.
```

1. The applications Lucy was given access to when she joined Acme are automatically updated with Lucy’s latest profile information including her new title.
1. Since Lucy is now a member of the People Managers Okta group, an account is provisioned for her in Acme’s employee performance evaluation tool.
1. A flow is triggered in Okta Workflows when Lucy’s profile is updated that adds Lucy to a private chat group for people managers.

#### Leaver

> 1. After working at Acme for 5 years, Lucy decides to leave to take a Customer Support executive role at another organization. HR sets her last day in the employee directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. After working at Acme for five years, Lucy decides to leave to take a Customer Support executive role at another organization. HR sets her last day in the employee directory.
```

1. At close of business on Lucy’s last day with Acme, her account is removed from Okta. Her accounts in the various applications she uses for her job are removed.

> 1. An offboarding flow is triggered in Okta Workflows which reassigns ownership of Lucy’s files and folders in Acme’s cloud file storage service to her manager. A rule is created in Acme’s email system which forwards any email sent to Lucy’s corporate email address to her manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. An offboarding flow is triggered in Okta Workflows which reassigns ownership of Lucy’s files and folders in Acme’s cloud file storage service to her manager. A rule is created in Acme’s email system that forwards any email sent to Lucy’s corporate email address to her manager.
```
